You should already know from the previous lesson that
the overall vulnerability management process includes eight steps.
The first three are what contribute to finding gaps.
After that process, you should have one of
several reports from the vulnerability scanner or from your penetration test.
With that list, the last five steps in the process contribute to fixing the issues.
Here are the steps.
First, you validate findings.
This is where you confirm that vulnerabilities are valid and remove any false positives.
The next step is to prioritize.
You rank the vulnerabilities based on risk and
other factors that help signify what should be addressed first.
Then remediate.
You work with appropriate resources to fix the issues.
After that, you retest.
Rescan or retest to confirm that the vulnerability has been
fixed and that other gaps were not exposed in the process.
Finally, close.
This is where you document the closure of the vulnerability.
One of the common terms when discussing vulnerabilities is the severity level.
Just as on a hot summer day,
if it's 80 degrees Fahrenheit,
you might say, "It's hot outside."
If it's 90 degrees,
you might say, "It's very hot outside."
If it's 100 degrees,
you might say, "It is scorching."
So you apply different terms based on how hot it is.
The same applies to security vulnerabilities.
Severity ratings are applied based on how significant the vulnerability is.
Common severity levels include critical,
high, medium, and low.
These become the foundation for understanding
your vulnerabilities and prioritizing your remediation efforts.
Because there are so many vulnerabilities spread across various systems,
there needed to be a common scoring convention and way to measure severity.
Otherwise, through different perspectives,
the same vulnerability could be defined as critical
in one place while it's medium in another.
CVSS was a framework created to address this.
The common vulnerability scoring system, also called CVSS,
provides a way to capture the principal characteristics of
a vulnerability and produced a numerical score that reflects its severity.
That score can be translated into
a qualitative representations such as low, medium, high,
or critical to help companies properly assess and
prioritize their vulnerability management process.
In a nutshell, it's a system for measuring
the relative severity of different vulnerabilities.
Now the score is calculated based on, first, exploitability.
This is considering elements like the attack vector,
whether privileged credentials are required, and more.
The next one is impact.
This is taking into consideration how does it impact
the CIA triad or the confidentiality,
integrity, and availability of the system.
Lastly, temporal and environmental factors.
For example, what remediation options are available?
Now the resulting number can be translated again into critical, high,
medium, or low issues and that becomes the basis of your remediation planning.